hi I'm Tim Gipson I'm going to talk to
you about how to test a thermostat now
this is a programmable thermostat and
you may either have this in your home or
you may have just a mechanical
thermostat but either way you can use
these same procedures to test whichever
one you have now in this particular case
we've got a digital readout so we want
to make sure that it's showing the time
and what the current temperature is now
something very important is it happens
to be about 70 degrees in here so that
is a temperature that we can check both
the heating system and the cooling
system it is not recommended to check
your cooling system when the
temperatures are below 65 degrees so
that's something to keep in mind when
you are checking your thermostats make
sure you're in the proper temperature
range
so as we fold down this lid we want to
make sure we run in this particular
system you can either have it operating
in heat mode off position or in the
cooling mode and the fan is auto so the
first thing we want to do is we want to
take the fan switch and switch it to the
on position when you switch it to the on
position then you should hear your ear
and be able to feel it in your return
air grill so as long as that happens
then you know that the fan in your unit
is working properly so we'll switch that
back to auto the next thing you want to
do is you want to make sure and check
and see if the temperature is working
correctly so right now it says the
temperature is 72 so what we will do is
we will set it up and you should hear
when you go above the temperature you
should hear a click indicating that it's
coming on and you should also be able to
hear in the background your furnace the
burner is actually coming on now what
you need to do is you need to wait for
it to cycle because those burners will
run they'll actually heat up the unit
and then the air will come on so you'll
need to wait up to a couple minutes
to make sure that that happens so the
heat is on it's verified now the return
air we can start to feel it then you
might want to go around and even check
and make sure that you've got hot air
coming out of your diffusers so once we
do that then we're know we're in good
shape on the heating system so we can
set it back down let the system cycle
and cool itself down and shut itself off
now when it's completely shut off and
you wait a few minutes then we're going
to do the same procedure we're going to
switch it to the cooling system we will
put the temperature down below the
current temperature wait for the system
to cycle you should hear click and then
you should hear your cooling system come
on and you should hear your air flowing
so as long as you do that you can check
both your heating and cooling again and
you check your cooling as long as it's
above 65 degrees and you should be able
to determine whether your thermostat is
working properly if you do have any
problems and it's not something that's
readily identifiable at your thermostat
you can check your wiring connections by
popping this off it's usually a good
idea to contact professional HVAC
company to come in and check your system
out so I'm Tim Gipson and that's how to
test a thermostat